every time they go live it brings them
five figures in revenue literally five
figures in revenue
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the learn notification
hello everybody and welcome to our very
special edition of free stream live show
with neil patel today we are going to
talk about why live streaming should be
your focus in 2021 and you will learn
the best tips about this from the top
worlds marketer neil patel without
further notice neil welcome to the show
it is so great to have you here
thank you for having me
absolutely it's a pleasure so today we
are going to talk about marketing and
live video and we have a lot of
questions lined up we also will be
taking questions from our community so
please bring them up in the chat we'll
take a couple of questions from the chat
as well as take a couple of questions as
video with some of our community members
who submitted questions in advance um
all right so let's go ahead and get
started uh with uh just a general kind
of overview from from your perspective
neil what are the major video marketing
trends of 2020 uh that you're seeing and
billy will stay relevant in 2021 since
we're approaching the end of the year
sure so
you know what's funny is we're here live
live is actually one of the biggest
trends we're seeing and
not for the reason most people think so
here's why live is is big if you look at
most social media platforms one thing
that they've done over the years is they
crush the reach
right unless you pay you don't tend to
get much of a reach
but here's the thing what's different
with their algorithms is they're trying
to beat
live television like the normal
television that you watch on tv through
cable providers whatever it may be right
when you're watching your abc nbc
whatever the tv channel may be
so their whole thing right now is if you
go live
they're trying to spread it not to just
your network but your network's network
and whoever else is willing to watch
because they want more people to stay on
youtube or facebook or any of their
platforms because they make more ad
revenue versus
if you go there out there and go watch
tv so that's one big trend that we're
seeing right now which you should go
live more often and the more live you go
the better off you are because it's
actually causing higher engagement so
then when you create content whether
it's videos or text-based posts or
whatever it may be that content is doing
better because you had more engagement
from your audience during the live
session from comments and stuff like
that so they're more likely to see it
when you're not quote-unquote going live
so that's what the first big trend that
we're seeing
awesome that makes a lot of sense um so
when you work with uh different
corporations and entrepreneurs in that
little video preview we saw that you
have a very wide spectrum of clients
that you're helping with their marketing
needs do you feel like those
organizations and business owners
underestimate the power of life video
today
they do you know what's funny is i was
talking with a large corporation without
naming their name and they have quite a
big social presence because they've
spent a lot of money to get that
presence
and right now they're in the process of
finding people within their space
to interview on all these channels and
create content
and the my pitch to them was you
shouldn't actually just go create
content and do interviews what you
should do is because the people that
they're trying to interview are really
well known and also have massive social
callings
my pitch to them was you should go live
together and do interviews
so for example
let's take the example of instagram if i
go live on instagram at the same time
that they're going live and we're both
on the interview my followers will get
to know them and their falls will get to
know me so in essence it's kind of like
a win-win but on top of that you'll
notice that the content spreads way
faster than if you were just going live
on your own channel to your own audience
yeah that makes that makes a lot of
sense and uh yeah
interview is also one of the easiest way
to create live content for those people
who are just thinking how do i get
started with this is just connect with
experts in your industry start with
interviews and conversations because
it's very easy and natural to have a
dialogue right versus preparing all
presentation and keeping your audience
engaged
um so for those who are i'm
thinking about live video and also
think about search engine optimization
which is one of your major areas of
expertise what are some
seo tips for live videos for both
beginners streamers and creators as well
as advanced ones
sure so first off when you're creating
video content keep in mind the most
popular search engine out there is
google if you had a guess on the second
most popular search engine what would
you guess it would be
after google oh that's a good one um i
would say
it it will be another
like something like yahoo maybe
it's actually youtube technically that
is google as well it's a trick question
but uh okay google's number one number
two is yahoo i mean uh youtube sorry
about that
and when you think about youtube very
few people
are thinking about youtube optimization
so when you're creating the live content
if i mention the word seo and you
mentioned the word seo youtube now knows
that this video is on seo so it's going
to rank higher for the word seo also
when you're going live there's titles
there are descriptions having the right
keywords in there helps as well
the next thing you want to do to
increase your seo and your traffic even
if you don't have
any audience and you're not starting off
you can then take that video after it's
done being live and then promote it
within the first 24 hours the reason i
say first 24 hours that's the most
important part of youtube's algorithm to
rank so in google's algorithm if you
want to rank it's slow and steady wins
the race youtube is opposite whatever
videos do the best in the first 24 hours
they tend to rank really quickly and you
can get your rankings in the next day
two days sometimes even same day so i do
email blasts i'll do push notifications
messenger bots but if you don't have an
audience what you would do is you'd go
to your other social profiles
spread it you would tell all your
friends hey go comment go share it go
like it leave a comment and you just do
manual grassroot stuff and when you do
that you'll notice that it increases or
another thing that you can do that's
quite easy is you can just go out there
and
spend a little bit of ad money and drive
some clicks and views and that helps as
well too
awesome yeah that makes that makes a lot
of sense um and also the beautiful thing
about youtube is the content is kind of
evergreen and people can keep
discovering you as long as the topic is
kind of universal right and it's not
very
it doesn't expire immediately you do
have that opportunity to get more and
more views and also repurposing is
another another way to approach your
live videos which we will cover a little
bit later on today um so one of the
things that i remember you were
mentioning in one of your courses is um
you get a lot of questions about landing
pages and how to drive engagement so
one of the suggestions that you made was
ask questions on landing pages ask
people uh something about themselves and
make that part of the lending
what kind of questions do you think will
help boost engagement during a live show
what kind of things should we ask the
community in order to galvanize them
sure so when you're in a live show like
let's say if i'm talking about marketing
and we're talking about marketing here i
could have a question right now is that
what kind of business are you are you a
small business are you startup are you a
large corporation or i can even get more
specific are you a local business are
you e-commerce business and there's
things like that and then i can adjust
the content based on what they select
because i can pre-create the content
right
and then on top of that when people
start giving you
responses you can then adjust and tailor
your responses even in the live
interviews based on what the majority is
so if everyone said here hey i own an
e-commerce company i'm just making it up
and we're talking about live
i would then adjust what i'm talking
about and i would say hey did you know
there's an interesting technique that
most people don't know about did you
know you can actually go live on
facebook and youtube and start to create
your own home shopping network style of
video where you showcase products like
i'm going to showcase this macbook and
i'll be like look i only got 10 macbooks
left
you know leave a comment if you want to
buy one and just you know respond with
the word five or not one or buy and then
you know i can start following up with
people who said that they want to end up
buying right so you can end up doing
really creative stuff like that once you
get to know the type of people who are
listening in
awesome awesome yeah that's uh that's
wonderful it's uh you know for our
community who is watching us today we do
encourage you to submit your questions
so please go ahead and submit them and
we will be highlighting them in the end
and you know we will also bring in a
couple of people to ask questions with
video uh so you know to kind of keep
engagement a little bit um
on top of that you do create a lot of
video content you have a very robust
youtube channel you have all kinds of
courses tutorial videos uh different
things i guess my more or less personal
question to you is like what kind of
videos do you enjoy creating most just
just yourself aside from that being
bringing value to your business
my favorite type of videos are how-to
tutorials anytime i show someone how to
do something i love it because i feel if
you watch a video and you can get action
out of it i feel that i've taught you
something helped get you achieve your
goals in life or in your business or in
your marketing so i feel that it wasn't
a waste of your time
those are some of my favorite videos to
create funny enough some of my favorite
videos to watch aren't necessarily
how-to related it's more trend-based
like what's happening in the future
what's changing i love watching those
kind of videos as well
awesome amazing so when it comes to
videos uh what is your approach to
measuring return and investment because
for a lot of people if you don't have a
team of producers and professional
videographers editors it is quite an
endeavor to create video content right
it's a lot more
not really everyone believes that you
don't need professional look at my
background straight up
from the coffee table you know like i
don't have a professional background
right now you know what the best way to
create a phone is or video you just bust
out your phone and you go and create a
video and you upload it and it's okay
and it works people don't care that much
about the quality but here's an
interesting step for you
we have a software called ubersuggest
okay and ubercs is the seo tool that a
lot of people use hopefully more in the
future um and we have a free version and
we have a paid version we ran a survey
at the end when people started
purchasing saying hey how'd you find out
about us
did you know a little bit more than 20
really ran the survey for a few days but
during those few days literally a little
bit more than 20 percent of the people
said we learned about you from youtube
we learned about you from watching
videos
now when we look at our tracking from
youtube and we look at our tracking from
facebook and linkedin because we're
uploading a lot of the live videos and
even the recorded pre-recorded videos to
all these uh
social networks
we can't track the roi we didn't see it
but asking people showed us that there's
a massive roi the problem that people
end up having is when they're trying to
generate revenue from these channels
they expect to generate revenue they
spend some money they spend a few
dollars and they expect to generate
revenue right then and there remember
it's the long tail if you optimize for
these keywords with these videos you
continually get traffic even if i don't
release content on youtube i can
generate 800 to a million views
a month just because i'm getting a lot
of traffic from all those search queries
so what i tell people is if you do it
for six months to a year and then you're
patient you'll see a huge roi but if you
expect it in the short run you won't and
if you're looking to find a direct roi
through tracking it's really hard but
when you start surveying and asking
people
you'll be shocked
on how much volume
social channels can actually drive you
so that's that's a great advice because
a lot of people get stuck on this return
on investment because yeah you're right
you don't have to have a lot of
equipment and a lot of effort put into
video but it is still effort and you
kind of want that instant gratification
right like with pay-per-click for
example you uploaded that ad you put
that picture and oh my god this many
people clicked this many people bought
with live video it doesn't necessarily
work that way you kind of have to
play a longer game a little bit uh but
what what are your thoughts on on
repurposing content because uh live
videos are great because they're faster
to create right like right now we're
just going live we didn't have to
take a bunch of takes we didn't have to
prepare we didn't have to write a script
but then after we're done here there's
so much we can do with this video so
what are your recommendations on how to
how to approach what you have after you
went live
so my recommendation is okay so even if
you
go go live and you didn't you know you
don't have much of a setup or anything
like this um
my recommendation is like look you go
live and if you're gonna go live offer
some sort of thing in your videos that's
the first thing i don't know why people
don't do offer something whether it's a
product a bonus a promo whatever it may
end up being right then the next thing
that you you know you mentioned in your
question when you're
talking about live it's how do you end
up leveraging it
and my whole big thing is
optimize it for
keywords uh take that content repurpose
it into audio so like i would strip out
this video
like literally remove the video strip it
out into audio and turn it into a
podcast and then what i would end up
doing is taking that video or audio and
then i would figure out how to send it
to someone on upwork and tell them to
repurpose it into a blog post they can't
transcribe it directly into a blog post
but they can modify it so it works into
a blog post and it's just like you're
taking that one piece of content and you
now have from video that you upload to
all the social sites you publish it on
your own website then you end up
creating an audio version which could
just turn into a podcast you put that on
google you put it on uh spotify you put
it on the itunes store and then from
there you also repurpose it into blog
post
and then as i mentioned from that
within your live video hopefully you
have some sort of offer
so then now when you're repurposing it
not only getting more views more
impressions but you're also generating
sales and it's indirect
and here's what i mean by indirect the
moment you tell people on a video hey
click the link below and go to my
website the social networks will ding
you their algorithms are based on the
longer you stick around on that social
platform the more views we're going to
give you because that helps them
generate more ad revenue the moment you
send them off you're not going to do as
well and that's what makes it harder to
track roi but the moment you're
repurposing you're putting it out there
your brand's getting out there you're
going to get more sales and you're going
to start seeing indirect roi from it
yeah yeah absolutely uh it is uh it is
easy to forget how many different ways
you can uh creatively repurpose content
and uh what is your take on
the difference between live video versus
pre-recorded do what what do you think
is easier because in my opinion going
live is easier to create you know
perfectly edited video but i'm curious
what's your opinion on that i'm the same
and what's funny is if you have a
pre-recorded video more people want the
higher quality production
i still recommend people just bust out
their phone and take it and
majority people will be okay with it but
when you go live no one expects
perfection or editing so when you save
money because you don't have to have all
this stuff
and then two you're getting more views
than pre-recorded because our algorithms
are trying to encourage live at this
moment and then three you can engage
more with your audience while they're in
there which then helps boost up the
power of your social profile so when you
post the non uh quote unquote live
content it tends to do better because
you've engaged with a lot more people
through the comments
yeah absolutely speaking of comments
just to acknowledge a couple of people
here felicia is setting is saying uh
when you go live or for something
product offer um after going live stream
audio and create podcasts absolutely
definitely something that we we do with
restream and uh we always recommend our
community to do making up for purpose
content uh randy from facebook is saying
great idea i've been bench watching
podcast recently it is really funny to
think about how many people are
consuming or experiencing your life
video as a podcast to begin with because
as we speak right now
just imagine how many people are
watching us on the background while
they're doing something else so
technically they're not necessarily
watching they're just listening so why
not to bring it on a podcast platform
where people just originally
intentionally come to for audio only so
that's uh that's a good one i see
felicia sharing the link to ubersuggest
and
lawson is saying the best tools are the
ones you have on you that's regarding
your
idea that you do not have to have a
professional camera in order to get
started thanks guys keep bringing your
comments keep bringing it
the the camera on these phones are
better than most the cameras out there
that people have
that's very true
it's simple to use and it's just like
you know they have all these filters and
stuff like that and there's apps that
you can end up installing that make your
video production better as well without
having an editor
yeah yeah absolutely i i agree and uh
as you go this is one of the things that
we recommend is try
get started with whatever you have and
then if you have a lot of traction then
you can upgrade right you can always get
that better camera better lights better
mic after you realize that this is
working for you and you're getting a lot
of traction so this is definitely this
is good stuff uh so you work with so
many different people do you have any
case studies or any specific examples it
could be your agency or could be one of
your clients where live video really
made a difference and they can like
change their game either in sales or
marketing or exposure
sure so without mentioning the company
name they sell hair products hair
extensions they go live on facebook and
they try to go live at least once a
month
and by starting going live
and they just sell literally right on
the live remember how i mentioned hey do
you want to buy this macbook right hey
in essence you're demoing the hair
extensions the hair products and saying
hey do you want to buy
every time they go live it brings them
five figures in revenue literally five
figures in revenue
now when i was talking to him i was just
like
take what you're doing and don't go live
once a month go live three times a week
and little things they don't generate as
much per video now
but their total revenue is much more and
it's growing and getting closer to over
six figures a month uh
i i think this month they're on track to
hitting six figures just from that so
they're not there yet but they're
getting close and it looks like they'll
be on track for that although
we're getting close to thanksgiving so
who knows but if it wasn't for
thanksgiving my bet is it would easily
hit six figures
i think for black friday they have quite
a chance to
that's correct
to go up like yeah if they decide to do
a promo right if they don't do a promo i
don't know how effective it's going to
be so they haven't decided yet but if
they do i think it'll be super effective
yeah that's true that is so interesting
we get those questions quite a bit from
our community when people ask does it
matter how often do i stream should i
stream once a week or once a month or
every day like is that how does that
affect uh the you know the exposure and
effectiveness of our stream what do you
think is kind of like that golden middle
like you don't want to go live every
hour right like that's kind of crazy
it's too much work um i would say at
least once a week and ideally a few
times a week if you can do daily great
and that's assuming your content is
great you don't want to go live for the
sake of going live even though it's good
too if your content sucks people aren't
going to want to keep tuning in so make
sure that your content is amazing and if
you can only produce amazing content
once a week when you go live then go
once a week if you can only do once a
month where you think you're gonna have
great content that people are gonna love
then do once a month but if you can have
amazing content three times a week or
even seven days a week then go live
three to seven times a week it all
depends on the quality of the
information you're putting out
yeah absolutely and again to acknowledge
some of our community members felicia is
saying i love live streaming and
engaging with audience loving the
content that you're providing today
thank you so much it's great to have you
and anita is saying fantastic tip on not
sending people away during life and
great about doing live more than
pre-recorded i agree that this is kind
of counter-intuitive for people to uh
invite their community to leave the live
stream this conversation that we're
having and instead of inviting them into
the conversation and include them into
the dialogue say hey click this link go
away don't watch me anymore right so
it's very interesting perspective i'm
glad you brought this up it was
really interesting
uh so another question that i have for
you is um in terms of
bringing your content to your audience
right now people are kind of spread out
between different social media platforms
more and more of them are coming out
especially with the health crisis people
are staying at home they're spending a
lot of time online and live do you
believe that it is important to bring
content to your audience and send it to
multiple channels versus just focusing
on one channel
well i i look at it this way
if i create a video
right like this video we're doing this
why would you only put it on youtube or
only on facebook
it doesn't matter how many followers you
have you're gonna be seen by more people
the more networks you push it out on so
whether you like instagram or whether
you like facebook or youtube or twitter
who cares
do all of them because you're going to
get more views more views equals more
branding more customers more sales more
evangelists so if you're going to create
the content it doesn't take that much
more effort to put on all the networks
it's literally an extra few clicks of a
button
so if you don't do that it's just like
you're spending all this time to create
content and you're missing out on extra
sales
yeah absolutely and you know using tools
like restream and there are several
others out there uh it makes it so
simple like for example right now we're
live on youtube facebook linkedin and
twitter at the same time i am
aggregating all the chat you you can see
it as well neil i'm sure you can see the
comments coming in
and you can see which platform they're
coming in and you can acknowledge them
you can highlight them at any moment so
you don't really have to create multiple
videos and multiple efforts to include
all the community in one place there are
lots of tools that can help you do it uh
in in a very easy easy way
uh so i see that more questions are
coming that's awesome there's one more
thing that i wanted to cover with you um
just before we turn to community
questions uh so there is there is
something that you mentioned as well on
your youtube channel about the
scalability of marketing agencies i
believe that's part of your marketing
school
program as well uh so there's so many
different uh services that marketing
agencies are offering right now and the
consumers customers are very demanding
in terms of what they are expecting from
a marketer when they when they contract
to hire somebody do you believe that
offering something like streaming as a
service is is something that marketing
agencies could look into and could it be
scalable for them so basically run live
streams for some businesses who are
thinking about leveraging that tool but
not yet feeling comfortable or ready to
do it themselves
yeah i think it's uh funny enough i
don't think it's a hard service to
provide i think it's easy
you can do it quite well and you can
generate quite a bit of revenue for it
the big thing is is whatever service
you're providing as an agency focus
niche down narrow down so don't don't
provide seo pay-per-click conversion
optimization streaming services
uh
you know and the list goes on and on
because it's too hard to scale
especially i'm not saying eventually you
should add in all the services
but at the beginning just pick one and
offering streaming as a service as an
agency is it the biggest market no you
would make more money doing
pay-per-click but here's the thing that
most people don't tell you
if you do pay-per-click as an agency
you're competing with thousands and
thousands of other agencies so it's
actually going to be really hard for you
to gobble up market share if you do
streaming even though the market cap for
live streaming is much smaller your
competition
is much less so you can actually in the
short run make way more money and i
would actually even say in the next year
or two you would probably make more
money you know just focusing on uh
things like livestream like if you look
at garyvee he recently did something
when voice search was blowing up and he
did a voice conference
and he had a lot of big companies that
were coming there because no one was
talking about voice is voice is a big
market as seo or paid ads or social
media no but there's no competition so
right now as an agency
i don't know of any good agency that is
focusing on live streaming services and
just that i think that's a huge
opportunity funny enough you know we
started getting more and more into video
and we started creating a video division
just to help customers
and you'll be shocked on how many
companies when we talk to them like oh
we didn't even know this is an option
and their whole big thing is oh
internally we don't know how to do it we
don't know what content to pitch or
present and a lot of our employees are
shy so we just want someone to deal with
it for us because we don't want to do
any of it and we just want plug and play
pay someone and they just go and do it
but i think there's a massive
opportunity right now in that
do you uh do you remember your first
ever live stream uh and how did that go
it's always
usually for most people it's kind of a
hilarious or strange or awkward
experience do you remember anything
about yours yeah so i believe my first
live experience was on facebook
and i just went live only on facebook i
was at a starbucks coffee and i went
live for like two minutes
and i quickly learned like oh and i had
a thousand plus people viewing and i was
like oh i should have
stayed on for like 10 20 minutes i'm
like i could have just created a
recorded video why would i go live for
only two minutes
uh and i was just giving advice about
what i should have done and i did it
wrong at the time we'll stick around for
20 30 minutes answer people's questions
engage with them
and use life for what it's quote unquote
meant to be versus just doing that
standard recorded type of video and
putting it live and that's what i'm big
on is because like most people say oh
yeah i can just do my standard type of
video the key with live is to engage
with the audience when you do recorded
videos you don't engage as much the way
the engagement is what causes your
social profile to have more clout so
that way when you post other content it
has a higher likelihood of going viral
yeah absolutely for those who are
experiencing us as a podcast uh speaking
of refurbishing let me reintroduce you
real quick my guest today is neil patel
he is the world's top marketer mega
influencer entrepreneur and blogger
so us before we turn to engagement i
just came up with another question that
i was really curious about kind of in in
conjunction of what you were saying
about how a lot of people think that
they're shy how they're not comfortable
going life is so daunting uh so you are
very charismatic very seasoned performer
it is very easy for you to say hey just
turn on that live button like you'll be
fine you'll look great uh what would be
your recommendation for people who have
this hundred thousand reasons like why i
don't look good on camera i have an
accent i'm not you know i'm i'm so
awkward i don't know like i'm so shy
like what would be your your advice to
them so a few things first off i'm an
introvert so most people are like oh
you're fine on camera but i've done it
so often that you get used to it the
second thing i always tell people is
everyone is
everyone is a little bit awkward
everyone is very judgmental about
themselves and you'll be how shocked on
how
forgiving and how um
how the audience doesn't really think
about those flaws that you would so you
may be like oh i don't look right or i
have this like the other day i was on
this uh live interview with someone and
he mentioned how he got into a car
accident and his nose is a little bit
messed up and how he has like a little
line on his nose and he was telling me
how he was lucky and he's still alive
and i was telling him on this interview
i was like
i'm like dude who cares about your
nose you don't have to feel bad or tell
me about it it's not a big deal be happy
that you're alive and you're still there
for your family
and he's like no no i totally agree but
the thing was when he mentioned his nose
i didn't notice it only he noticed it
and most people aren't
they don't really care they're just like
hey i'm happy to be here thank you for
your time thank you for helping us out
thank you for providing advice whatever
it may be so don't stress about these
little things and i just encourage
people to just try going live for like
five minutes and you may be awkward it
may not work out the way you want but if
you do it a few times you'll get used to
it you'll get encouraging comments
people are very friendly on the social
web and then you'll realize oh this
isn't bad let me just keep doing this
more and more
yeah yeah absolutely yeah i i think this
is uh this is very common misconception
because people are so judgmental and
it's amazing how forgiving the community
is
there are so many ideas that people are
going to be so mean to me but actually i
personally never experienced that and i
think most people uh
are their own worst judges so to say if
that if that makes
any sense all right a couple of
questions from our community there are
so many good ones coming in uh lucy
carter from youtube is asking would you
recommend going live at different times
or having a regular time slot so
basically schedule we're live on the um
we're live in an on-demand world so how
would you encourage viewers on live so
schedule versus spontaneous showing up
so
i recommend in the long run you have a
regular schedule but here's what i would
do so when you're first starting off
live
use multiple different schedules because
then you'll see what times
create the most interaction and
engagement and the most viewers once you
have that time slot and you've tested
out a few times then make that time your
regular slot where you continually go
live during that time or that day
or if it's multiple days during the week
that time during the week
so then you know what's gonna get you
the most engagement if you don't test
you're just gonna be like oh yeah this
is the best time but if you haven't
tested it you don't really know
so then i everyone needs to test that a
few different times at the beginning to
figure out the ideal time where majority
of the audience is going to be online
yeah yeah absolutely
so another question that i thought was
really interesting is hear from
from youtube web video uh he's saying
i'm a baby boomer nerd the average early
baby boomers are my target audience can
you give any insights on how to engage
and convert them or just in general is
there any difference in approach for
different generations or do you know
if you're going after teens to baby
boomers to people in the elder
demographics they're all online the big
thing is if that's your target audience
and you want to figure out insights on
how to convert them the biggest thing
people make a mistake on is to forget
the pitch if you forget to include a
pitch within your live video promoting a
product a service whatever it is you
have to offer you're less likely to
generate revenue because my mom always
said if you don't ask you'll never
receive
so ask and you can do that with a pitch
yeah yeah absolutely that's uh that's
very good that's a very wise idea like i
love what your mom said yeah you have to
ask you have to try have to do in order
to get somewhere
sabir is here checking in saying love
neil patel he is
ceo the seo and content guru much love
brother thank you so much yeah you are a
guru that's really that's really um
it's really exciting very welcoming
community thank you for the kind words
severe and funny enough i've known sabir
for a bit um he's actually one of the
best e-commerce consultants that i know
the guy knows e-commerce like the back
of his hand
that's amazing yeah we actually do work
with severe he's one of our partners so
yeah it's good to see you and i see uh
leanne saying here great to see neil
advocating for live streaming yeah
absolutely live streaming is is the
future and it should be your focus for
marketing in 2021 this is what we are
talking about today uh and i do have a
couple of people who will be joining us
uh with live video
um so let me go ahead and bring in bruce
uh here uh to ask his question
right bruce uh let's see can we can you
i'm not sure you have your your
microphone on i don't think we can hear
you maybe you're muted
here you can hear me now yeah we can go
ahead and ask you a question great
interview on you real really good
questions and uh she's got it down she's
got him she's laid out and she's not
wasting any time it's awesome
hey um so i come from a radio background
i did radio in la for about 12 years and
uh
yeah i'm like totally used to turn flip
the mic on and i have no idea what we're
doing for the next hour but we're gonna
make the phones ring um so and those
were the days but uh even
all of that just went downhill and
downhill and downhill and 30 calls per
hour for what we were marketing and
doing on the radio turned into one call
per hour so we've really had to battle
back to figure out
uh i would spend two hours a week on um
content prep and just go in the studio
for an hour and do it and not think
about marketing for the rest of the week
uh now you know so people say why don't
you have a podcast because radio's down
i'm like podcast and youtube and live
streaming and it's it's gone from three
hours a week to 30 hours a week to
maintain the same traction
and it's daunting but
in this area of live streaming which
we're moving into
similarly
i um
i do somewhat cerebral contents i'm a
financial advisor sometimes there's a
visual sometimes it's not just like hi
chit chat today here i am aren't i cute
why don't you order my products it's a
little bit more cerebral and what i'm
daunted by even though you've answered
the question three times
is
uh production values because we've got
people in my field that are at uh
virtual news desk sets
they look really good there's so much
going into this and just when i think
hey everyone's gonna love me being on my
phone i'm like oh i'm so far behind the
rest of the field has totally out
produced me and now no one's going to
take me seriously so
uh i know you've answered this three or
four times i probably know what the
answer is going to be but i just want to
state it from the background that i'm
coming from of trying to be
uh you know
be accepted as an authority get people
to listen sometimes i need slides i got
to make things a a little take something
wonky to break it down
talk to me about
why i shouldn't care about production
values or should i production
don't get me wrong i'm not trying to
knock it and i'm not trying to say
there's no value there and there's a
time and place for it
but what you'll find is let's go back to
your original
issue when you did radio your call
volume dropped to barely like one hour
okay when you go live
these social networks are gonna push
people to your videos you won't have
that issue of only having one an hour
you'll get more engagement these
platforms are more popular than radio
so why wouldn't you just go out there
and just produce it and not worry about
production value and every time we've
tested of high production versus no
production right because typically when
you release recorded videos you have
some sort of production but when we test
recorded videos with production versus
live videos with no production
almost all the time not 100 but majority
of the time
the live video beats the recorded video
in traffic and that's because of the way
the social algorithms work you get it's
too hard to do fully produced perfect
videos that are live if that's the case
it's not really that live
awesome thank you so much bruce for
joining us uh you know made it a little
bit more interactive with like bringing
people in uh there is another great
question here from gabrielle uh he is
asking what would have to happen over
the next two to three months for a live
streamer with marginal experience to
build an engaged committed life audience
so this is the question about growing
your audience from when you're starting
from a small place
you have to do a few things one you need
to probably go live three
times minimum a week if not like five or
six
two you need to have bring on other
people who have big communities um the
bigger the better if they're small
that's okay it's better than nothing so
that way you're going live at the same
time so their audience knows about you
and your audience knows about them the
third thing you need to do is do keyword
research
so when you do keyword research i'm
talking about including the right
keywords in your videos your
descriptions etc uh fourth is you need
to go live on all the platforms not just
one platform because the more you do the
more reach you're gonna get
and then the fifth thing that you need
to do is promote your live
videos whether that's emails push
notifications uh messenger bots if
you're gonna go live letting people know
about it in advance you're going to have
a much bigger audience and you're going
to start building in um
regularity which is going to help you
so that way you continue to have an
audience and if you want a bonus tip
what i would do is i would offer
incentives if you share the video or if
you tell other people about it or you do
x y and z
you can win
a phone you can win
a consulting session you can win
a one-on-one private conversation with
me whatever it may be so things like
that will also make it spread faster
awesome all right we have another person
joining us this time this is mina from
uh
actually new zealand so she's joining us
from far away i'm gonna go ahead and ask
you a question
uh kiara everybody kiara is uh hello in
maori the um
original language anyway uh a very
question for you uh thank you for having
me on how do you monetize the
live broadcast
if you're hosting
a person or
you're having a conversation and
you it's just a conversation they're not
selling a product or anything
how do you monetize that live stream if
it's just them talking about their life
what kind of thing
so what kind of product or service do
you sell
i
am not selling a product
and i am not selling a service yet okay
so if i'm having a general conversation
let's say we're talking about kitchen
appliances
i can tell people oh you know oh is this
what you used to cook oh you can get
that uh
you can put in your own custom url your
own bitly url and it can have an
affiliate link that's an easy way to
monetize so whatever your conversation
is about you can integrate either
affiliate offers your own products your
own services whatever has that you have
to offer that's related to video in a
natural way if i was having a
conversation with you about live
streaming i wouldn't say oh by the way
if you want dog food go here to buy it
but let's say we're talking about live
streaming i would say hey and by the way
if you're going to test this out and you
haven't done it check out restream
you can end up going live on all these
networks you'll get a bigger audience
and it's really easiness a few clicks of
a button right it's related that's a
pitch without with being soft and it's
relevant and it provides value and the
value part is the key because most
people don't do well from their pitch
because they're selling something
that doesn't benefit the end user if
we're talking about streaming and i'm
talking about restream and it ends up
giving you the results a bigger audience
and all in just a few clicks that's a
win-win you're getting the benefit of
ease a bigger audience and they're
getting the benefit of more signups so
it's working on both ends and if there
isn't a benefit on both ends it doesn't
work out well
awesome thank you so much yeah great
question mina i appreciate it uh so to
wrap this up we are going to come to our
little pitch right here with restream
and with neil i know i asked you that
kind of last minute before we went live
you have used restream in the past right
can you can you share a little bit about
your experience what was your uh were
you just exploring for the first time uh
or did you quickly realize the power of
multi-streaming and kind of like
spreading and broadcasting your content
all over the place and kind of like ran
with it
sure so
funny enough you know even if you
weren't here i would still say this um
i've only been live a few times without
restream and then eventually i ended up
learning about you guys from a buddy
named eric sue and he's like dude we can
go live on all the networks at once
and then since then i've only used you
guys because why would i go live and not
reach as many people as possible and
generate as much brand awareness or even
revenue from that aspect but i've only
had a good experience and if i didn't no
offense i wouldn't be using you as this
product
awesome well thank you so much for
saying that i appreciate it yeah it is
definitely an opportunity to reach more
people just because mathematically it
makes sense right you go to more
platforms it also helps you to go to
bring content to where people already
are instead of telling your facebook
folks to go join you on youtube and
people who usually hang out on linkedin
uh go and find you on facebook right so
it's it makes sense it's logical but
yeah i'm really glad to hear and
especially this product like studio you
know it really makes it very easy for
you to start and you don't have to have
a lot of equipment you don't have to be
a professional video producer and editor
as long as you are like male and have a
great message to deliver have expertise
have knowledge that you are willing and
comfortable sharing uh there
there are lots of tools out there and
restroom is one of them that can empower
you well i guess serious is when i first
tried to go live on multiple channels
when eric was telling me about you guys
i was
literally trying to buy multiple laptops
and get laptops from my team members to
try to go live on all of them at once
and then when i learned about you guys i
was like oh this is way simpler
yeah yeah it is definitely complicated
especially when you think about a lot of
times people think about restream going
to multiple platforms meaning different
platform every time right but you can
also think about multiple destinations
or channels within one platform for
example if you have a facebook page and
a facebook group and a facebook profile
restream can help you solve that problem
and that put you everywhere without
necessarily going to 30 different
platforms at the same time so it was
this was um
yeah this was really um really exciting
conversation i really appreciate you
joining us today neil thank you so very
much for your time i guess to wrap it up
and close it um any last piece of advice
for people who are still undecided
somehow about live streaming
look whether you use restream or any
other tool out there i just recommend
you go live you'll see good results and
instead of me saying hey this is why you
need to do it like i already mentioned
that a lot just try it out for five to
ten minutes literally bust out your
phone pick any social platform you want
to do go live you'll realize the value
once you've seen the engagement then go
live on all your platforms at once like
it's that simple or if you want just go
live on your all your platforms at once
at the same time as the first start off
because you'll even see more engagement
but either way
don't take my word for it don't take
everyone else's word for it because
there's a lot of stats that show that it
works really well just go and try it out
but with five minutes of your time you
don't have to plan for anything
literally just bust out your phone and
start talking
yeah absolutely well thank you so much
neil and for those who is watching us
today there's a quick kind of free wheel
party here uh that we are also going to
be working with neil on a blog post
about why live streaming should be your
focus in 2021 so there will be more
information and more
knowledge bombs and wisdom tips from
neil coming in in the direction of live
streaming for those of you who are
interested in leveling up your game next
year maybe even in the end of this year
in terms of your video and digital
presence well thank you very much once
again everyone for watching us today
thank you for the community for your
questions for you know people who showed
up and joined us live um and thank you
so much neil for every second of your
time and all those great advice and
insights appreciate you